In his fourth Independence Day speech at the Red Fort on Tuesday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi spoke on varied issues, ranging from farmers' issues, GST, demonetisation, terrorism and triple talaq. Here are 10 points of his speech from the ramparts of the Red Fort:

Gorakhpur tragedy

The prime minister was being criticised for not talking about the Gorakhpur hospital tragedy which has killed over 70 children so far. However, Modi broke his silence on Tuesday. The prime minister said, "In the last few days, some of our innocent children died in a hospital. All the countrymen stand together at this time," he said.

Pitch for New India

    During the course of his speech, Modi said that India should create a New India before 2022, the year when it celebrates 75th year of Independence. "We have to take the country ahead with the determination of creating a 'New India'," Modi said.

Let us come together to create an India free of corruption, nepotism, casteism, communalism and terrorism. Let us build a country which is clean, healthy and is self-determined," he said.
Prime Minister Narendra Modi at Red Fort on Tuesday. Screengrab from Youtube

Prime Minister Narendra Modi at Red Fort on Tuesday. Screengrab from Youtube

Invoking Quit India Movement

Modi had previously spoken on the Quit India Movement during his monthly Mann ki Baat address as well as the special session of the Parliament to commomerate the event. During his Independence Day speech, he once again invoked the historic event.

    Asking Indians to take inspiration from the 1942 movement, Modi said, "Within five years, the British had left the country because of our unity," he said. "We have to take a sankalp of new India and take the country forward."

Remembering the contribtion of Mahatma Gandhi to the freedom movement,"There was a Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi once. People with cotton in their hands support Gandhi and eventually, the country got freedom," he added.

Prime minister says 2018 crucial year for India

Modi put special emphasis on the New Years' Day 2018, telling Indians that the year will mark the comming of age of a whole generation which will steer India forward.

"The upcoming 1 January on 2018 will not be standard. The people who were born in the 21st century will find that this date will decide a lot in their lives," he said.

"I welcome all the youths who will turn 18 in 2018. Now, you are getting an opportunity to be a part of the force which develops India," said the prime minister.

Modi invoked surgical strikes and national security

Modi hailed the surgical strikes, that took place on 29 November, 2016 and reiterated that his government is serious about tackling various national security issues. "After the surgical strike, the entire world had to acknowledge India's strength," the prime minister said.

"The concern for national security is a natural one in an independent India," Modi said.

"Our security forces have always shown their capabilities whenever on duty. Whether it is terrorism or infiltrators, our security personnel have always been ready for sacrifice," Modi added.

People are celebrating mahotsav of honesty today

Modi hailed his government for several breakthrough measures like One Rank One Pension, GST and demonetisation.

Taking a jibe at black money holders, Modi said, "The people who stole from the poor are still uncomfortable.Today, people are celebrating a mahotsav of honesty," said the prime minister.

Reiterating the government's committment to the armed forces, Modi said, "For 30 or 40 years, the matter of One Rank One Pension was stuck. But our government took steps to fulfil the demand of our security personnel."

On government's other development measures, he said,"Today, roads and railway tracks are being constructed twice as fast. Today, over 14,000 villages have got electricity."

Focussing on financial inclusion of the weaker sections of the society, Modi said, "29 crore people have got bank accounts now."

Kashmir issue can be solved peacefully

Militancy in Kashmir was another major highlight of the speech. Taking a conciliatory approach towards Kashmiris, Modi reiterated that the Kashmir issue can be solved only through peaceful means. "Parivartan hoga Kashmiri ko gale lagake (There can be a chnage only by taking Kashmiris together)," Modi said.

Promising to bring prosperity to the militancy-infested state, he said: "The development of Jammu and Kashmir is also a committment of the people and the government there."

Tough stance on militancy

However, while the prime minister spoke of involving common Kashmiris in India's growth story, he said that militancy will not be treated leniently.

"A lot happens in Kashmir. A lot of claims have been made. A lot of people abuse each other. There are a lot of separatists. But there will be no leniency for terrorism. I have told many to become a part of democracy," said the prime minister.

Modi backs Triple Talaq

The Triple Talaq issue found a notable mention in the speech. Reiterating his government's support to the movement against Triple Talaq, ,Modi added that India will also support Muslim women in their struggle.

"I believe India will fully support the women in their struggle. The women of this country created a revolution against Triple Talaq. There was an atmosphere against Triple Talaq in the country with even the media supporting the women,"he said.

Modi hits out at communalism and casteism

Modi asserted that violence in the name of faith is "not acceptable" and described casteism and communalism as "poison" for the country. The comments assume significance in the backdrop of incidents of lynchings by cow vigilantes.

    "Violence in the name of faith is not acceptable in the country," Modi said.

Pitching for harmony and peace, he said "Bharat Jodo" (connect India) should be the slogan like "Bharat chhodo" (Quit India) was during the freedom struggle. Modi said that problems like communalism and casteism cannot benefit the country in any way. "Therefore, violence cannot be emphasised in the name of faith," he said.

Modi hails GST reform 

    Calling GST as an example of co-operative federalism, Modi said that the reform will help the nation achieve higher growth without losing any momentum. "Through GST the nation gave new direction to competitive federalism," he said. "Technology is a miracle. People wondered how GST was rolled so fast across the country," Modi said.

"After GST enrolment, our truck drivers save 30 percent of their time in travel now," he added.

Demonetisation - the biggest measure to fight corruption

Modi termed the move to demonetise Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 notes as a fight against black money. "Today, I want to proudly tell people that within just three years, we have recovered Rs 1.25 lakh crore black money," he said.

"Through note ban, the black money came out. It was our endeavour to recover black money and then make it a constructive part of the economy," Modi said.

Last year, India had 22 lakh tax payers. However, Modi said that between 1 April and 5 August this year, the number went up to 56 lakh.

Thanking the citizens for their patience during the note ban, Modi said, "After demonetisation, many people are saying that my political career is over," said Modi. "But due to the patience and sacrifice of the people, we are becoming successful in the fight against corruption."

Modi said that after demonetisation, the government cracked down over shell companies, which were acting as a front for hawala transactions.

"The businessmen with black money used to run shell companies. After demonetisation, three lakh shell companies were found. And out of that, we cancelled the registration of 1.75 lakh companies," said the prime minister.

 

With inputs from PTI

Published Date: Aug 15, 2017 10:49 am | Updated Date: Aug 15, 2017 10:49 am
Tags :#Bjp#Criticalpoint#Demonetisation#Gst#Independence day#India#Narendra modi#Red fort#Theysaidit

Also See

    'Narendra Modi's popularity has risen unabated:' Amit Shah reacts to Pew Global's findings

    Kerala's culture of 'jungle justice', political violence and strikes hurting tourism sector, the only industry that thrives in state

    'Narendra Modi doesn't want Gujarat voters to see reality': Congress' Anand Sharma slams BJP on Winter Session delay





9 Months Episode 15: A Guide to the delivery, by doctors — Part 1


Top Stories

    English
    Hindi

    GES Hyderabad 2017: Highlight of Ivanka Trump's visit should be India's burgeoning gender gap in workforce, not biryani​

    GES Hyderabad 2017: Highlight of Ivanka Trump's visit should be India's burgeoning gender gap in workforce, not biryani​
    MSY Daughter-in-law Aparna Dances to Padmavati Song, Kicks Up Row

    MSY Daughter-in-law Aparna Dances to Padmavati Song, Kicks Up Row
    North Korea crisis: From diplomacy to direct confrontation, Donald Trump is left with no good options

    North Korea crisis: From diplomacy to direct confrontation, Donald Trump is left with no good options
    Bitcoin breaches $10,000 mark; should you still bother to invest in it?

    Bitcoin breaches $10,000 mark; should you still bother to invest in it?
    How artificial intelligence with robo-advisory works

    How artificial intelligence with robo-advisory works
    Narendra Modi in Gujarat: PM pushes campaign into high gear, mocks Rahul Gandhi over Somnath visit, GST barb

    Narendra Modi in Gujarat: PM pushes campaign into high gear, mocks Rahul Gandhi over Somnath visit, GST barb
    Formula 1 2017 season review: From Lewis Hamilton's 4th world championship to Mercedes-Ferrari battle

    Formula 1 2017 season review: From Lewis Hamilton's 4th world championship to Mercedes-Ferrari battle
    Marvel prepares for the new generation after Avengers 4 finale in 2019; 20 new films planned

    Marvel prepares for the new generation after Avengers 4 finale in 2019; 20 new films planned



Cricket Scores

    Current & RecentUpcoming

    Papua New Guinea and Scotland in UAE, 2 ODI Series, 2017

    PNG Vs SCO

    Scotland beat Papua New Guinea by 4 wickets

    Papua New Guinea and Scotland in UAE, 2 ODI Series, 2017

    PNG Vs SCO

    Scotland beat Papua New Guinea by 6 wickets

    Sri Lanka in India, 3 Test Series, 2017

    IND Vs SL

    India beat Sri Lanka by an innings and 239 runs

    The Ashes, 2017/18

    AUS Vs ENG

    Australia beat England by 10 wickets

    Sri Lanka in India, 3 Test Series, 2017

    IND Vs SL

    India drew with Sri Lanka

    New Zealand in India, 3 T20 International Series, 2017

    IND Vs NZ

    India beat New Zealand by 6 runs

    New Zealand in India, 3 T20 International Series, 2017

    IND Vs NZ

    New Zealand beat India by 40 runs

    New Zealand in India, 3 T20 International Series, 2017

    IND Vs NZ

    India beat New Zealand by 53 runs

    Pakistan and Sri Lanka in UAE, 3 T20 International Series, 2017

    PAK Vs SL

    Pakistan beat Sri Lanka by 36 runs

    Bangladesh in South Africa, 2 T20 International Series, 2017

    SA Vs BAN

    South Africa beat Bangladesh by 83 runs








Site Index

    हिंदी फर्स्टपोस्ट
    About Firstpost
    RSS
    Twitter
    Facebook

    Sections
    Front Page
    Politics
    Sports
    India
    World
    Business
    Life
    Entertainment
    F.Cricket
    Tech
    Photos
    Videos

    Plus
    First Cricket
    Gujarat Assembly Elections 2017
    Himachal Pradesh Assembly Elections 2017
    Pro Kabaddi 2017
    ISL 2017-18
    Laureus World Sports Awards 2017
    New Delhi
    Mumbai
    Photos
    F. Pedia
    Videos
    FP Exclusives
    Video Room
    Weather

    Network 18 sites
    In.com
    Moneycontrol
    Burrp
    Topper Learning
    Overdrive
    News18 Lokmat
    News18
    Sample Papers Online
    Business Technology News
    MTV India
    Online Shopping in India
    CAprep18
    F. Shows
    E-Learning Franchise Opportunity
    GST Rate List India

    Tools
    RSS Feeds

    Apps
    iOS
    Android

Copyright © 2017. Firstpost - All Rights Reserved.

Terms of usePrivacy
